# project-l-board-game-analysis
The beginning of our analysis for the board game Project L, from the perspective of a tiling problem. In recent investigations of multiway games, we generated more content than was really necessary to get the point across. In addition to RandomSierpinskiMaze, the list of omissions also includes a few insightful results about the Project L board game.

The purpose of this repository is to generate tangentially related exciting content to provide reproducibility so that summer school students can verify the results. That's not all there is to it; this is an open-ended, evolving solution that is there is a chance for innovation and originality; from a mathematical viewpoint the board game "Project L" simply asks players to solve exact cover problems given limited resources and time constraints. Solving this puzzle is a tremendous feat because all monominoes are yellow, all dominoes are green, trominos are either orange or blue, and there are five singly-colored tetrominos. These are called polyominoes for which we have 90 tiles. Starting with the full set of tiles, that players would build up by the end of the game, for each puzzle the weight metrics are (1) the number of points in the top left corner, (2) the grid size (or weight) of the polyomino rewards piece, and (3) the grid size of the to-fill-in recessed, white, inner regions. Since the player with the highest score wins, we can assume that every point value P is in fact an expected time T = P to completion.

Our framework is built upon the work of Harshal Gajjar, Georgia Institute of Technology https://community.wolfram.com/groups/-/m/t/1379322 which proposes the creation of polyomino graphs with phenomenal implementation of the multidimensional Flatten method, and assumes that every point value P is in fact an expected time T = P to completion. The number of points is awarded in the top left corner. This assumes a linear relationship between complexity and time to completion. W/T' = (T/T') * W/T. With the link between P = T, we can write W/T' = (P/T') * W/P. The player can choose three consecutive actions from: A puzzle is drawn from the bank at no cost. A tile of weight N is played into the puzzle. A tile of weight 1 is drawn from the bank. A tile of weight N is traded to the bank for another of max weight N+1. Multiple tiles of total weight X can be played into consecutive puzzles. This play of X per one time interval is usually the player's maximum power action, since total weight is a summation of up to four individual tile weights (players can have at max four puzzles on board).

According to the comprehensive data analysis of Brad Klee, Wolfram Research https://community.wolfram.com/groups/-/m/t/2552665, most puzzles in the game are balanced such that P / T' is less than or equal to one. That is the expected time is mostly less than or equal to the actual time to completion T'. We are looking for the possible ways that five point puzzles from Project L can be solved with a relative efficiency greater than one, that is it takes shorter than expected. That is we can solve the puzzle faster than the puzzle's point value in the top left corner. The idea is to measure the tile's usefulness by the proportion of puzzle solutions that display the tile, defining units for time. The dancing links method works because x exists in a detached state, it continues to exist on a separate linked list from the one at that we are looking such that we can swap it back in for what's left of right or what's right of left. This repository is meant to provide insight into the best pieces & puzzles, and the actual completion power with efficiency in a practical, real-life quantitative study.
